AA-AUTODEP(8)                                                                            AppArmor                                                                            AA-AUTODEP(8)

NAME
       aa-autodep - guess basic AppArmor profile requirements

SYNOPSIS
       aa-autodep <executable> [<executable> ...] [-d /path/to/profiles] [-f]

OPTIONS
       -d --dir  /path/to/profiles

          Specifies where to look for the AppArmor security profile set.
          Defaults to /etc/apparmor.d.

       -f --force

          Overwrites any existing AppArmor profile for the executable with the generated minimal AppArmor profile.

DESCRIPTION
       aa-autodep is used to generate a minimal AppArmor profile for a set of executables. This program will generate a profile for binary executable as well as interpreted script
       programs. At a minimum aa-autodep will provide a base profile containing a base include directive which includes basic profile entries needed by most programs.  The profile is
       generated by recursively calling ldd(1) on the executables listed on the command line.

       The --force option will overwrite any existing profile for the executable with the newly generated minimal AppArmor profile.

BUGS
       This program does not perform full static analysis of executables, so the profiles generated are necessarily incomplete. If you find any bugs, please report them at
       <https://gitlab.com/apparmor/apparmor/-/issues>.

SEE ALSO
       apparmor(7), apparmor.d(5), aa-complain(1), aa-enforce(1), aa-disable(1), aa_change_hat(2), and <https://wiki.apparmor.net>.

AppArmor 3.0.3                                                                          2021-11-18                                                                           AA-AUTODEP(8)
