  zbackup
 
## NAME
        zbackup - versatile deduplicating backup tool
 
## SYNOPSIS
        zbackup init [--non-encrypted] [--password-file ~/.my_backup_password ] /my/backup/repo
 
        zbackup [--password-file ~/.my_backup_password ] [--threads number_of_threads ] backup /my/backup/repo/backups/backup-`date '+%Y-%m-%d'`
 
        zbackup   [--password-file   ~/.my_backup_password  [--cache-size  cache_size_in_mb  restore  /my/backup/repo/backups/backup-`date  '+%Y-%m-%d'`  >  /my/pre‐
        cious/backup-restored.tar
 
## DESCRIPTION
        zbackup init initializes a backup repository for the backup files to be stored.
 
        zbackup backup backups a tar file generated by tar(1) c to the repository initialized using zbackup init
 
        zbackup restore restores the backup file to a tar file.
 
## OPTIONS
        --non-encrypted
               Do not encrypt the backup repository.
 
        --password-file ~/.my_backup_password
               Use the password file specified at ~/.my_backup_password to encrypt the repository and backup file, or to decrypt the backup file.
 
        --threads number_of_threads
               Limit the partial LZMA compression to number_of_threads needed. Recommended for 32-bit architectures.
 
        --cache-size cache_size_in_mb
               Use the cache size provided by cache_size_in_mb to speed up the restoration process.
 
## FILES
        ~/.my_backup_password Used to encrypt the repository and backup file, or to decrypt the backup file. See zbackup(5) for further details.
 
        /my/backup/repo The directory used to hold the backup repository.
 
        /my/precious/restored-tar The tar used for restoring the backup.
 
        /my/backup/repo/backups/backup-`date '+%Y-%m-%d'` Specifies the backup file.
 
## AUTHOR
        Howard Chan <smartboyhw at gmail dot com>
 
## SEE ALSO
        tar(1) zbackup(5)
 
                                                                                                                                                           zbackup(1)
